Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
horror, sci-fi film called “Cloverfield.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Jason and Lily, a young couple, are busy
walking through the streets of New York,
preparing a surprise party for Jason’s brother
whose leaving for Japan on a new career venture.
They document their day with a camera, planning
to give it to Jason’s brother as a souvenir.
At Jason’s apartment, Jason tasks his brother’s
best friend, Hudson, or Hud, to take the camera
and record the party. Jason asks Hud to go around
the party recording messages for Jason’s brother.
Jason has his farewell message recorded
first, wishing his brother a safe journey
and more success in Japan. Hud goes around the
apartment, recording messages from everyone,
and Lily sees him operating the camera. Lily
is a little bothered with Hud doing it since
she asked Jason, but she lightens up and has her
message recorded. As Hud records Lily's message,
he focuses on Marlena, a girl he has a crush on.
Hud goes to Marlena to get her to
leave a message for Jason’s brother,
but Marlena looks uncomfortable and tries
avoiding it. She reasons that she and Jason’s
brother aren’t close enough and thinks it would
be weird for her to leave him a parting message.
She says she’s only there for
Lily and would be leaving soon.
Hud doesn’t take no for an answer, and Marena
reluctantly agrees. Marlena excuses herself after.
Rob, Jason’s brother, finally arrives and
is surprised to see a party thrown for him.
He gives a short speech thanking
them. Rob later asks if Beth,
a girl he likes, would come. Hud tells him he
doesn’t see why Beth wouldn’t come, as they’ve
been friends for a long time. The party continues,
and Rob goes around, talking to everyone.
Beth finally arrives, and Rob greets her, but
he’s surprised to see she came with a date.
Hud later sees Rob sulking while watching
Beth, and Hud asks Rob if there’s a problem.
Rob is reluctant to share his thoughts and
says nothing is wrong. Hud then goes to
Beth and asks to get her message. Beth agrees, and
she leaves a noticeably heartfelt message for Rob.
Rob then interrupts them and asks
to speak with Beth in private.
Hud tells Jason he’s noticing something strange
about how Beth and Rob are acting, but Jason
tells him it’s probably nothing. Hud then sneaks
into the hallway, trying to get Rob and Beth’s
argument on camera. Rob is mad that Beth brought
a guy to his party, but Beth is also angry at Rob,
saying he hasn’t contacted her in weeks.
Rob sees Hud, and Lily drags Rob back in.
Hud tells Jason that Lily may know what Rob
and Beth were fighting about and tells Jason
to convince Lily to tell them. Lily gives in and
reveals that Beth and Rob have slept together.
Hud then goes around, telling
everyone about Rob and Beth.
Beth steps back in, taking her date and leaving.
Lily sees Rob is upset and tries to
get Jason and Hud to talk to him.
Jason and Hud then go into Rob’s
room and try to cheer him up.
Rob tells them that the night he and Beth shared
was spur-of-the-moment. Hud tells Rob that Beth
is upset because Rob didn’t call her, leaving her
feeling like she got blown off. Rob reasons that
he shouldn’t have called her anyway since he was
leaving for Japan soon. Jason gets frank with Rob
and tells him that he should have pursued Beth and
tells him Beth is out of his league. Jason adds
that Rob should think about what he wants since he
knows Rob’s had feelings for Beth for a long time.
A loud boom disrupts them, and the power
goes out. The ground shakes, and people
inside are terrified. The power is restored,
and a news report informs them of an earthquake.
The report also talks of an oil tanker capsized
in the harbor near the Statue of Liberty.
Hud and Jason decide to go up to the roof to see
if they could get a better look at the incident.
Everybody heads up to the roof, and a
massive explosion lights up the sky.
Everyone rushes back in and heads downstairs.
Fireballs rain on pedestrians running on the
streets, and another loud boom
is heard. More explosions occur,
and a massive object falls from the sky. Hud
sees that it’s the Statue of Liberty’s head.
The rumbling continues, and Hud sees an
enormous creature moving through the buildings.
A skyscraper collapses, and they seek shelter
inside a building. The rumbling intensifies,
and the massive creature passes by. Things
calm down, and Jason steps out with Hud.
Hud shows them what he captured on video, and
Jason suggests they leave the city immediately.
They start walking, heading to the Brooklyn
bridge. They get to the bridge and join crowds
of people also planning to leave the city. Hud
sees the creature's wreckage in different parts
of the city, and Rob gets a phone call from Beth.
Rob, Lily, Marlena, and Hud stop and wait for Rob,
but Jason gets separated. Rob hears Beth
saying she can't move and asks for his help.
Panic starts on the bridge, and Lily
calls to Jason, a fair distance away.
Suddenly, a massive appendage lifts out
of the water and crashes into the bridge,
falling directly on Jason’s location, crushing
him. The bridge starts collapsing, and people fall
into the bay. Lily, Hud, Marlena, and Rob all make
it back to the streets, but Lily and Rob are in a
state of shock. Hud talks to Rob, but he stares
blankly. Rob notices his battery has run out,
and he runs to a ransacked store to get
batteries. Hud sees what happened at the
bridge and gets a clearer look at the creature
attacking the city from the news footage.
Military trucks roll in, and the report
shows soldiers battling the giant creature.
The reports detail small creatures falling
off of the monster, lunging and attacking
the soldiers. Rob finally gets through to Beth.
Beth tells him that her apartment has fallen,
and she’s pinned down, unable to escape,
pleading for Rob to come and help her.
Rob decides to head to Beth’s location,
and the rest try to talk him out of it,
but Lily decides to accompany him. Hud
and Marlena have no choice but to follow.
The behemoth suddenly appears, and they’re
caught in a crossfire. Bullets and missiles
fly. The group then decides to run into
the subway, seeking shelter underground.
They reach the subway station and regroup,
rethinking how they will rescue Beth and leave
the city. Rob’s mother calls, and he breaks
the unfortunate news that Jason has died.
They then decide to walk the tunnels to Beth's
apartment, thinking that it would be safer to
travel underground. They walk in darkness but
hear strange noises coming from the tunnel.
They see rats scurrying away, seemingly running
away from something. They start running too and
decide to resurface at the next station. Hud turns
on the camera's night vision and sees creatures
on the tunnel ceiling, the same creature that
fell off the monster and attacked soldiers. He
tells everyone to run as fast as they can, but the
creatures attack. Lily gets pinned, and Rob helps
her. Hud trips and holds a creature back with his
legs, and Marlena helps him, beating the beast
with a metal pipe. Another beast comes and tackles
her down, and she gets bit. Hud and Rob kick the
creature off Marlena, and they all head into
a maintenance room, locking the creatures out.
Marlena gets a deep gash on her back,
and Rob opens a vending machine,
getting several water bottles for Marlena to wash
her wounds. They then decide to head above ground,
making their way through hallways and
finding bright lights at a distance.
They approach the lights, and Marlena says
she’s feeling dizzy. They’re soon greeted
by soldiers and are taken to their base. They
enter an infirmary and see dozens of casualties.
Rob informs them about Beth, but the soldiers
tell them they can’t do anything to help. Rob
starts begging, but Marlena suddenly
starts bleeding from her nose and eyes.
The soldiers and medical personnel spring into
action, dragging Marlena away to quarantine her.
They rush her out, and the rest of the group are
in panic, not knowing what’s happening to Marlena.
Hud sees Marlena’s body inflate and
explode, her blood spraying all over.
The rest of the group are dragged outside, and a
soldier is willing to let them go to save Beth.
He warns them that an airstrike would
be coming in soon, and the last of the
evacuation helicopters would also be
leaving soon. They have to save Beth
and make it to the evacuation
area before the bombing starts.
They finally get to Beth’s apartment
and see her building barely standing,
leaning on another building. They decide to
climb the standing building, making their
way up and crossing over to Beth’s building.
They make their way to the 39th floor of the
adjacent building before crossing over. They find
Beth impaled by a steel bar, pinned to the floor.
They get her up and start making their
way down. They cross over to the adjacent
building again and see the creature
getting bombarded by fighter jets.
They make it back to the streets and start
running for the evacuation helicopters.
Hud gets a good view of the monster as
the military battles it, the creature
seemingly unaffected by whatever the soldiers
throw at it. They reach the helicopters,
but only Lily gets loaded in, and they have
to get into a different chopper. They fly out,
and Hud gets a clear bird’s eye view of the fight.
They finally see the monster in its entirety.
The airstrike arrives, and the bombs hit the
monster. It falls, and dust fills their view.
Hud cheers, but the monster pops out of the smoke
and hits their chopper, making them spin out of
control. The helicopter crashlands on Central
Park, and Beth wakes Hud. They pull Rob out
and start helping him walk away, but the monster
suddenly appears behind them. It looms over Hud
before it leans down and eats him. The camera
falls back down, focusing on a lifeless Hud.
Rob and Beth hide under a small bridge
and hear bombers approaching. Beth cries,
saying she’s terrified, feeling helpless knowing
all of their friends are dead or missing.
Rob tries recording a message, stating his
name and his accounts of what happened.
Rob points the camera at Beth, but fire engulfs
them, and the bridge collapses on top of them.
Rob finally tells Beth he loves
him, and Beth tells him the same.
More bombs drop, and the
camera recording cuts off.